Now, boy,I've told you time and again.
Now, listen to me. There's no horsingaround when the train's coming.
Do you hear me?Now, go on, get away.
Looks like she's on time. Yes, she is.
Harrington!
Let me help you with that, little girl.Thank you.Watch your step.
Watch your step.There you are, little girl.
So I have to go to the store.You go get the luggage.Be careful of the fresh eggs.
They're wrapped in paper. Yes, dear. Ben?
Yes, dear? I want you to write a letterto the president of this railroad.
There were men smokingin the parlour car. Disgraceful!
I've taken his number. Yes, dear.
Miss Pollyanna? Yes? Aunt Polly?
No, I'm Nancy. I work for your auntand I came here to fetch you.
Oh. How do you do?
This is Mr Thomas, the gardener. How do you do?
Hello, young lady.
Oh, no, no, no.Thomas will take that for you.
Oh. Put it in the back seat.Oh, good afternoon, Mrs Tarbell.
Is that Jenny Harrington's child? Yes, it is.
Doesn't look a thing like any of theHarringtons. What's your name, girl?
Speak up. Pollyanna Whittier, ma'am.
Well, you're a very fortunatelittle girl.
Most children who have lost theirparents would end up in an orphanage.
You know that, don't you? Yes, ma'am.
Well, thank your lucky stars for sucha good woman as your aunt taking you in.
Yes, ma'am. Yes.
Well, see thatyou're properly appreciativeand don't cause any trouble.
Children really never realize__ Ed?
Uncle Karl! Much too long.
It's good to see you. Oh, same here.How's everything at the house?
Wait till Polly Harringtonhears about this!
Right up here in the back seat, honey.There you are.
Nancy, what are you staring at?
Oh, nothing!Nothing at all, sir.
Think she'll want the car? I don't know ifshe wants the car or not.
You'll have to ask her yourself.
Your aunt's waiting for you, miss.
Hurry up.I haven't got all day!
Oh, Mr Thomas.Please put that here.
All right, Nancy.All right.
You wait here, miss,and don't touch anything.
Do you understand? Yes, ma'am.
Well, we had, uh, Matthew.
Mark last week. Isaiah has some very good passages.
Isaiah? Yes, that's more what I had in mind.
Yes, Isaiah has somevery good passages. What is it, Nancy?
Oh, excuse me, ma'am.The little girl is here.
All right, show her in.
What you've been waiting for.
About the sermon, Reverend.
Yes.
Now, the transiency of life...
thatthat fleeting,ephemeral vapour...
it appeareth and it vanisheth__James, the New Testament.
The perishability of our mortal bodies.
You want me to__ to weave a themeof this into my sermon?
Well, let me tell you whatmy father said to Reverend Moffet. Yes. What did he say?
He said that you only have thecongregation for one short hour a week.
And there are six long days of mischieffor them before you get them again.
Aha! I see your point.
Strike hard on Sunday the excessivenessof God's wrath and hope they carry itwith them a few days into the week.
Exactly what I mean. Oh, yes, yes.
Well, come in, young lady.
Let's meet each other properly.
I'm your Aunt Polly. How do you do?
This is the pastor of our church,Reverend Ford.
How do you do?Well, there's a family resemblance.
She looks very much like her mother.
Mother always used to sayI look like you!
Would you be good enough to standerect and in a proper manner, please?
And where in the worlddid you get that dress?
It came in the missionary barrels.
Missionary barrels? Yes. Her father was a minister.
As a matter of fact, he wasa missionary in the British West Indies.
Pollyanna, this is goingto be your new home...
and I hope you'll bevery happy with me.
I'm very sorryabout the dress, Aunt Polly.
My father saidit was a size too big...
but that I should be glad it wasn'ta pair of boys' trousers.
Well, that's hardly anythingto be glad about.
Well, my father always used to saythat people__
Yes, well, never mindwhat your father used to say.
Supper is at 6:00 sharp, and no oneis ever late for meals at this house.
Yes, ma'am. Nancy will show you your room.
I'm very glad you sent for me,Aunt Polly.
Your home is very lovely.
Well, thank you.
It must make you awfully glad.
Glad? That you're so very rich!
Honestly!
Did I say something wrong? Well, let's just say...
there are about sixtyeleven thingsyou could have said besides that.
I run a clean kitchen.No shenanigans in here.
And you clean up after yourself,you hear me?
Yes, ma'am.
You sure it was Doc Chilton? Mrs Tarbell saw him first!
Coming back after all these years!DDoes she know yet?
Old blabbermouth Tarbellwill see to that. Yeah.
Now, mind what you're doing and don'tspill your milk. Now, come along.
You hurry up and change your clothesand get back here. I need your help. All right, all right.
And if you see Angelica,tell her to come down here too. Okay.
Leaving me all alone here. I'm very pleased to have met you,Mrs Lagerlof.
Mmm. Now come along.
Hello.
What's his name, please? His name happens to be Elizabeth.
Oh! You're a girl!
You're lovely. Now, leave her alone and come along.
How__ How do I address you, please?
Well, just call me Nancy,same as everybody else.
Oh. And this is Angelica.She's the upstairs maid.
How do you do? Psst! Psst!
At the back porch.You know who.
Now?Oh, for heaven's sake.
Oh, Angie, would you show herto her room, please?
Well, I still havetwo rooms left to do. I'll help you withthe bedrooms in the morning.
All right, just this once. Come on. Come on.
Will you get out of here? Come on.Hurry up. I've got work to do.Now, come on and get up here.
I turn my back for one moment,and what do you do? You disappear.
And don't spill that milk. Yes, ma'am.
I just got throughcleaning up this hall. Yes, ma'am.
What are you doing now? Who lives in all these?
There's no one lives in them.They're just there.
What for? That's what being wealthy is.
You sure are a questionasker,aren't you?
Now, hurry up.
Come on, come on.Don't dawdle.
Well, what's the matter? Nothing.
Oh! Stuffy!
Not much of a room, is it?
But it's my own anyway.I'm glad of that.
Ooh, and the bed's soft.
And it's got a lovely window.
Who's that man down there with Nancy?
None of your business.
Just make sureyou're dressed in time for dinner.
You'd think she'd do betterthan this for her own niece.
Almighty God,we thank thee for thy bounty.
Grant unto us the graceever to live in dread of thee.
And bless this food unto our nourishmentthat it may strengthen us...
to do thy will in all things.
Amen.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Nancy, would you bringanother glass of milk, please?
Yes, ma'am.
MyMy clumsy old hand.
Well, now, there's no harm done.
Did you find your room satisfactory? Oh, yes. It's very nice. Thank you.
You hadn't mentioned it,so I just wondered.
I've never had a whole roomto myself before.
I must be higher up in the housethan anyone, aren't I?
Well, I'm not used tochildren's noises around the house...
and that's the reasonI chose that one.
Oh, I'm__I love it. I really do.
Really!
Aunt Polly?
Do you ever have steak and ice cream?
Are you complaining about the food?
Oh, no!It's delicious!
I just wondered.
I love steak.
Father always used to say that ifwe ever had the money you have...
we'd have steak and ice creamthree times every day!
Pollyanna, I think we ought to getone thing straight right now.
I don't want you constantly quotingwhat your father used to say.
Do you understand?
Nancy, I thought I made myself clearabout gentlemen callers.
Ma'am? Now, don't pretendyou don't understand me.
I saw you and George Doddsout in the summer house.
George has been every incha gentleman with me, and it's not__ We won't discuss it.
If you want to remain on my staff,I don't want you to see him any more.
Do you understand? Yes, ma'am.
This is no concern of yours.
You can finish your supper, Pollyanna.
In the fall, I'll introduce youto Mr Bainbridge.
He's the principal of our school, andhe'll decide what grade you're to be in.
Pollyanna, I think we should talk aboutyou and your position in this community.
Do you know whyit's called Harrington Town?
My mother said it was namedafter my grandfather.
That's right.
And everyone in this town looks to usto set a good example...
in the way we conduct ourselves,in our duties and manners...
in what we thinkand even what we say.
So we must be good examplesfor everyone in everything we do.
Is that clear? Yes, Aunt Polly.
Just remember our family position andconduct yourself properly and modestly.
Oh. You mean what I said before?
I understand that now.I'll never say that again.
You understand what? About the money.
I'm not supposed to be gladwe're so very rich, huh?
Well, uh, I think it's time for youto get ready for bed, young lady.
May I kiss you good night? Please? What?
Kiss you?
I love you, Aunt Polly.
Uh, just a moment, please.Come back here.
Turn around once.
That dress is disgraceful.
Tomorrow we'll go into townand get you some decent clothes.
Storebought? But of course.
Where else would we get them?
Out of an actual store?New clothes?
Well, you're a Harrington now,and I want you to look like one.
Yoohoo!
Pollyanna?
Walk up the stairslike a lady, please.
Storebought clothes!
What do you think of that, Elizabeth?
I wonder if she meantnew petticoats too.
And new gartersand stockings and underpants.
Don't tell anyone...
but it's wonderfulto be so rich, isn't it?
Nancy, something's come up.I'm going with Mrs Tarbell.
Would you please take Pollyanna home? Yes, madame.
Oh, I'll take that box, Pollyanna.
Now, get into the car, miss.
Oh, Pollyanna. Will you please get intothe car? We've simply got to get home!
Oh!
George, stop it!
Oh, Pollyanna, you don't knowmy cousin Fred, do you?
Your cousin Fred? This is Pollyanna Whittier.
Miss Harrington's niece.The one who's come to live with her.
Oh. Oh, that one.
Hello, Pollyanna.How are you, honey?
Fine, thank you. Good.
Well, uh, how about this?Running into you after all these__
What's it been, six years?Say, how's your ma and pa? Well, they're just fine.
You know, Pollyanna,I don't take too much to relatives.
But this girl here, she wasalways just like a sister to me.
I tell ya, I love this cousin. Will you cut it out?
Uhhuh. Well, look, uh,what are you girls doin'?
How'd you like to go down the streetand get a great big dish of ice cream?
Huh? Oh!
Oh, no, that's a rotten idea. Sheprobably hates ice cream, doesn't she?
Oh, probably. Who, me?
Oh, no. I love it! Really?
You do?Well, now, isn't that astounding?
How'd you ever developa taste for that awful stuff?
Oh, no, really!I really do love it. I__
Well, I know a wonderful place.Come on, girls.
Follow old cousin Fredto the land of strawberry frappe.
Unless you'd rather go downthe street and have a beer.
You're funny.
Hey, you two,get down off that truck right now.
How many times did I tell youto keep away from the fire engine?
Hey, get on, there! Go on!I'm not gonna tell you again.Now, get off that ladder.
YouYou see?Right up there under the eaves?
Just beyond the window is where__ How'd it happen?
Oh, the pipes busted, Mayor. Both themboilers went up at the same time.
And before we knew it,we was up to our necks in water. Mr Geary!
Uh, comin'. Excuse me. Well, the children are safe,thank goodness.
I warned you about thisand told you we should do something.
Now, perhaps, you'll listen. I've asked everyone...
to meet at my house,and we'll discuss this calmly.
A fine orphanage this is!Water pipes busting all over the place.
Oh, Dr Chilton? Doctor, could youhave a look at Mr Geary's arm?
Oh, just scalded it a bit. Of course.
Is there a dispensary here? Yes, Doctor. This way.
I wonder what's going on.
Listen, miss, before we go in...
it might be just as wellnot to mention...
about the ice cream to your aunt.
My father told menever to tell a lie.
Pollyanna...
I didn't mean to tell a lie.
But there's no reason to bring upthe subject if it isn't mentioned.
I mean, about cousin Fred and all. I like your cousin Fred very much.
Oh, he's all right, I guess.
He's very handsome,and he has a nice smile.
But there's something sort of...
I don't know, funny about him.
What do you mean, funny?
I know what it is.It's his name.
He doesn't look at all like a Fred. What?
He looks more like a George to me.
Pollyanna! Wait a minute.
Pollyanna, I told youto come directly home. Yes, I know, but__
And know that when I tell youto do something, you must do it.
There are rules__ Nancy, where haveyou two been? It's almost 1 :00.
Well, uh, you see, ma'am__
Have you been carrying onwith George Dodds again?
Oh, it was my fault, Aunt Polly. What do you mean, your fault?
Well, II just dawdled so.
It was the excitementof the new dress, I suppose.
Polly, before Karl Warrenget's here, we must talk.
Oh, I suppose you're right.Nancy?
Nancy, get into your uniformand help with the luncheon.
Yes, ma'am. And this is no placefor you, young lady.
We have lots to do, so run along. Yes, Aunt Polly.
I'm sorry to start your vacation offlike this, Ed, but this won't take long.
Don't worry about me, Uncle Karl.I'll just wait out here.
Fine. Fine.
Oh, Frieda, Bessie, they're waitingfor you in the conservatory.
Right in there, ladies.
Why, Edmond.This is a surprise.
Well, if it isn't young Dr Chilton. Mrs Tarbell.
I'll see if everyone'sready for you, Polly. Thank you.
It's nice to see you again.Are you just visiting?
Well, I thought it was time forvacation, the first one in five years.
I'm just waiting here for Karl.I won't be in the way here, I hope.
No, no, of course not.
Seems strange,being back here again like this.
Polly, they're all ready for you.
I'll be right there.
Why don't you come in and join us? No, I'd rather not butt in.
I'll wait here.
Well, they're waiting for me. Go ahead.
I'll be fine here.
Hi, Nancy! Hi. You better get out of here.
Oh, I'm all right.
It should be parliamentary procedure,same as it's always been.
Well, for once, let's have facts. We always observe regular procedure.
Oh, bunkum!We're here because of an emergency.
Everybody will be talkingat the same time. Exactly!
Hello. Hello.
Is this the town meeting? Oh, no. It's in there.
In the conservatory, for heaven's sake.Oh.
Are you a memberof the ladies aid group?
Oh, no. I'm just a child.
I'm not even supposed to be here.
What's your name? Pollyanna Whittier.
That's my aunt over there,the pretty one.
This is her house,and I live with her.
Wait just a moment, everybody.We'll compromise.
We'll go tothe immediate problems first. Good.
Amelia, wouldn't you like to hearwhat Karl has to say?
All I'm saying is that it's timewe took some pride in that orphanage...
and put up a decent, presentablebuilding that we could all be proud of.
That's all I'm saying,and I've been saying it...
for three and a half long years!
Polly, he is completelyout of line on the whole thing.
If we'd all be a little more quiet,cooperative, orderly.
If we'd all stop shoutingand cooperate__
There is nothing wrong with thatbuilding! All it needs is new plumbing.
Today the plumbing, tomorrowthe roof and the Lord knows what__
Excuse me, Reverend.Who knows what's gonna happen next?
You were very happy when my fatherdonated the building for the town.
Oh, for Pete's sake,Polly Harrington, listen to reason.
It's a dilapidated old relic!
The dining hall, the dispensary.
Even my nephew, Dr Chilton there,he noticed that.
Ed, tell them what you said.
Well, I don't thinkI should say anything.
No, no. Now, come on. Tell themwhat you said. I want them to hear it.
Well, I got a look at the dispensarywhen I fixed Mr Geary's arm.
And I mentioned it seemed a littleinadequate for 32 children there.
There you are.Now you've heard it.
We all thank you for your interest,Edmond, but it's an equipment problem.
We're talking about Harrington House,which is a landmark in this town...
and I intend to see thatit stays that way.
We'll spend more tryingto repair that old building...
than it would cost to put up a new one.It won't cost this town one cent!
My father donatedthe building to the town...
and I will stand the cost of the pipesor the plumbing...
or whatever it is that's necessary.
It's my duty,and I will not shirk it.
And I suppose there's not one of youout there that has the gumption...
to stand up and say what you think,is there?
What about you, Reverend? You're a manof influence in this community.
What do you think? No! No, no, II, uh__
II never take sidesin these matters.
That's comfortable. Ben?
Speak up. Come on.
Oh, Karl!
Charlie, what do you say?
Well, say something!Anybody!
We do have other business to discuss.
That is, if you've finished, Karl. Oh, yes, I've finished!
There's your whole town counciland your whole civic conscience!
And you certainly don't need meas mayor around here as long as...
you've got Polly Harringtonrunning everything.
Karl never changes, does he?
Uh, ladies and gentlemen,we're having a little light lunch.
Suppose we stop for a whileand have a bite.
If you ask me, Reverend Ford shouldhave taken sides with Mayor Warren.
He had the chance, and what'd he do?He says he nevertakes sides in these matters.
Oh, stop stickin' your noseinto their business andget these sherbet glasses out there.
We're out of spoons. Well, wash some up. Don't stand therebellyaching to me about it.
You're in a fine mood,aren't you?
Pollyanna, I thought youcould use this for your room.
Oh, thank you, Nancy!Oh, it's gorgeous!
Oh, well, thanks for not spillingthe beans about youknowwho.
About cousin Fred, you mean? Mmhmm. Isn't he handsome?
I knew it all the time! You did? How did you know?
Well, sure, it was easy! I saw youholding hands under the table.
If you ladies gotnothing better to do...
than sit theregossipin' and snickerin'__
Well, we're just talking, Tilly. Well, talk on your own time.
This sherbet's turning to mush. All right, all right.
Nancy? Hmm? You know that man?
What man? The one at the train station.
The one that was just here.
Well, what was he to Aunt Polly?
Well, you might saythey used to be friends sort of.
You think he's gonna marry Aunt Polly? Who's gonna marry her?
She means Dr Chilton. Huh!
Fat chance! Who'd want to marryold picklefaced Harrington?
Nancy, are you and Georgegonna get married?
Oh, we hope to someday. Oh, I am glad.
I think everyone should be married.
And maybe whenyou do marry George...
Aunt Polly will see how happy you areand she'll be very gladto get married herself then.
Glad this, glad that!Do you have to be glad about everything?
What's the matter with you anyway? Oh, lay off her, Angie.
She's not hurting you. Oh, the way she goes on.
Now, that's enough!You heard what she said.
Stop pickin' on the girl.Now, take that sherbet outand serve it the way you should.
Go on!
Well, let's see what your aunthas on the menu for tomorrow.
Roast chicken.Chicken every Sunday.
Your aunt has no imagination.
Oh, I love roast chicken!I'm glad tomorrow's Sunday.
Yeah. Wait till tomorrow.You won't be so glad.
Did you ever hear of sour stomach?Well, Sundays around here...
give folks sour stomachfor the whole rest of the week.
How come? Wait till tomorrow.
You'll find out soon enough.
Praise him all creatures
Here below
Praise him above ye heavenly host
Praise Father, Son
And Holy Ghost
Amen
Death comes unexpectedly!
And the god,Jehovah,will execute his vengeance on ye...
who despise his dying loveand trample his benefits underfoot.
The unconverted soul,the foolish children of man...
do miserably delude themselvesin the false confidence...
of their own strength and wisdom.
They trust to nothing but a shadow.But bear testament.
Death comes unexpectedly!
Now, you say, "Ah, no.II had not intended it to come now.
I had laid out matters otherwise.I thought my scheme good.
I intended to take effectual care,but death came unexpectedly...
like a thief, outwitting me,too quick for me.
Oh, cursed foolishness, that I hadflattered and pleased myself...
with vain dreams of repentance.
But sudden destructioncaught me up."
And now he will deal with you.
Now, the great kingof heaven and earth...
will abolish and annihilatethis pride!
Will crush the hardened wretch ofthe polluted, infinite abomination...
and rain on him...
a deluge of fire and brimstone!
And where's their strength then?
Where are the great leviathanswho defy God then?
Where's their courage, thesethese__thesethese proud spirits?
Yes...
death comes unexpectedly.
And the dread judgehas the key of hell.
He shuts, and no man opens.
In hell...
you will be reserved in chainsof darkness forever and ever.
This place of atonement,of damned souls and misery...
with nothing to relieve you,no comfort...
no water for your parched tongues...
no place to rest or take a breath...
but the everlasting,infinite convulsions of misery...
forever...
and ever and ever!
Now, Isaiah has warned us...
on the day of vengeance,the earth shall be laid to waste.
And the cormorant and the bitternshall possess the land.
The raven and screech owlshall dwell in it.
Don't stare at the orphans, Pollyanna. And who is man...
to think he can withstandGod's mighty wrath?
Great mountains cannot standbefore this wrath.
Yea, he can lay the earthto pieces in one moment...
or shatter the whole universewith one stroke of his fiery sword.
How dreadful is the state of thosewho are in daily danger...
of this great wrath...
this abyss of death and despair.
Yet, this is the dismal case...
of every soul in this congregationwho has not been born again...
however moral or strict, soberand religious you may otherwise be.
There is no securityfor the wicked...
because there are no visible signsof death at hand!
Unconverted men...
walk over the pit of hellon a rotten covering.
And there are innumerable placeson this covering so weak...
they will not bear their weight.
And these places cannot be seen.The arrows of death fly...
unseen as noonday.
God has many differentunsearchable ways of takingthe wicked from this world.
Who here, in this congregation,listening to this discourse...
will soon be visitedby this covenant of darkness?
There you are, sitting there...
calm in your knowledge of health,secure in your wellbeing.
Yet who could suffer the agoniesof the damned of tomorrow?
Yes, even todayor maybe the next hour...
the next minute.
And if we were to knowwhich of you it was...
what an awful sight it would be.
A soul doomed...
to the everlasting bottomless pitof a divine wrath!
Yes...
death comes unexpectedly!
Amen.
Exactly!
I thought the reference to Jeremiahat the finish was very effective.
Didn't you, Mrs Ford? Yes.
I, uh, sometimes wonderwhether it's necessary...
to talk so furiously at them though.
Dear, Isaiah,Jeremiah and Ezekiel...
were all recorded with flaming pensand fire.
II can't deliver the messagewith syrup.
Of course not.Your voice is God's instrument.
It should be used accordingly. Well, we try our best.
What'd I tell ya?
He sure sermonizes something fierce,doesn't he?
Brimstone and damnationon top of ham and eggs!
The one day a week we have off. I hate Sundays.
Ooh, I just hate them. Breakfast still a hot ballin our stomachs...
and him chewing our ears offfrom that pulpit!
We're gonna have roast chicken though.I'm glad of that.
Are you gonna start that all over again?Glad this, glad that!
What is all this "glad" businessyou talk about?
Oh, just a game I play.
What kind of a game?
A game my father taught me.
It helps sometimes. Helps what?
When things aren't going so well.
That reverend! Away from the peas. Go away.
Folks just hate the coming of Sundaybecause of him.
Do you know why I hate Sunday?
Because it meansthe starting of another week.
That's true.That's when you can play the glad game.
Here it comes.
Miss Goody TwoShoes is gonna findsomething about Sunday to be glad about!
Oh, lay off her, Angie. Oh, stop it!
If you knew how to play the game,then you could find somethingto be glad about too.
But you don't!
All right, Miss SmartiePants,what's so good about Sunday?
Well, there's always something. Huh!
You could be glad because__
Well, because what?
Because it will be six whole daysbefore Sunday comes around again, huh?
That kid.
Hi.
Why don't you come out ofthe front door like normal people?
They won't let us. I can come outanytime I want with my tree.
You can also fall and hurt yourselfbadly. You shouldn't play in trees.
That's stupid.Don't you believe in God?
Of course I do!But what's that got to do with it?
He grew it there, didn't he,so I could climb out anytime I want.
You're much too youngto go around discussing thingsyou don't know anything about.
He did too!Why else would it be there?
Shows you're very juvenile.
You aren't so much, you girl!
Besides, I'm somethin' you can't be.
I'm an orphan.
Go away from me, please,little boy.
"Go away from me, please, little boy."
What is it you want?
I wanna go fishin'.You wanna come along?
Aren't you supposed to use a hook?
I don't have a hook.
Oh.
Hello.
Well, look who's here. How are you? Fine, thank you.
Caught anything? Not yet.
What was it you andmy Aunt Polly fought about?
Now, where did you hear about that?
Oh, just around. But they won'tdiscuss it when I'm there.
Um, would you mindtelling me what it was?
Well, Pollyanna,it's a strange thing about arguments.
At the time, they seem very important.But now__
You know, I can't even rememberwhat it was about.
Huh.
Aunt Polly's very pretty.
Yes, I think she is, don't you?
Yes. I just said so.
I love her, but I don't lovethe way she fixes her hair.
Years ago, she used to wear itlong and soft down to her shoulders.
It was very soft.
It must've been beautiful.
Yes, it was very beautiful.
Did you used to be in love with her?
Come on, Pollyanna.Let's go!
Reverend Ford and his wifeare with Aunt Polly now.
But they'll__they'll be leaving soon.
I suppose Aunt Polly will be aloneby herself most of the afternoon.
Well, II'd better be going now.
Goodbye.
You wanna know something? What?
Trees are the best thingsin the world.
You can hide up in 'em and peopledon't even know where you are.
And they're walking right beneath you. I never thought much about it.
Well, they are.You wanna see something?
What? Come on. I'll show ya.
It says, "Keep out." Shh! Ya gotta keep quiet.
Ya see that place? What about it?
That's Old Man Pendergast's place.
He's the meanest man in town!
Well, what are we doing here? Shh! Keep quiet.
Come on, Pollyanna.
This is his old, wet basementwith rats in it.
He hates kids.If he catches ya...
he throws ya down in his basementand keeps ya for his slave.
Then what are we doing here? Because I wanna show ya something.
There it is.
Up there.
The best climbing tree in town!
Isn't it a beauty?
Why, of all the stupid littlejuvenile tricks!
Do you mean to tell me that youbrought me all the way up here...
just to see a crummy old__a crummy old tree?
Wait a minute, Pollyanna.Don't you even want to climb it?
No. Well, would ya give me a boost?
Aw, come on. Please?
All right.
All right. Up this way.More. Come on. Higher.
A little bit higher.Just a little bit more.
A little bit higher.Right__
Right there.
What are you doing here? Look out!
I've gotcha!
Oh, you little__ Lemme go!
I've got you, you little devil.Come back here, you little girl! Lemme go!
Come back here! You wicked little boy.I'm gonna get the constable this time.
Lemme go, lemme go! Shut up! I'll teach you.
Lemme go! I'll teach you a lessonyou won't forget. Come here.
Lemme go. Come on! Get up there!
Lemme go!
I want you children to understandthat I do not want you on my property.
Keep away from me. Lemme go. Hey! Listen to me! You big bully, lemme go!
I've told you 50 timesto keep out of that tree! Lemme go!
And I don't want you in the tree.You hear me?
You keep away from me.I wasn't hurtin' anything.
It doesn't make any difference whatyou were doing. I'm gonna callthe constable this time...
and see that you keep off my property. Lemme go! That's all there is to it, you hear me?
Stop it!Stop it, you mean old man.
You let him go immediately! Oh!
You came back, did you?Who are you?
My Aunt Polly will sendfor the police.
And they'll find usin your old ratfilled basementand you'll go to jail.
Oh. Oh, they know about me, do they?
Everything!All about the children you've kidnappedand turned into your slaves.
Serves 'em right fortrespassing on my property. We weren't hurting anything.
We just wanna climb your old tree.
You fall out of that tree and get hurtand I get sued by your parents.
I don't got any parents.I'm an orphan.
Well, before I pitch youinto the basement with the others...
what name do you go by, boy?Jimmy Bean.
Jimmy Bean. I like to keep a recordof your names, you see,Jimmy...
so that I can tell you fromthe rats down there in the basement.
You lemme go! Hey! Come back here, doggone you!
Oh, no you don't. No, you don't.You come back here.
What am I goingto do with you, huh?
I don't know, sir.
Well, it was getting too crowdedwith kids in that basement anyway.
All right.I'll let you go this time...
but you've got to promisenever to come bothering me here again.
You promise? Yes, sir.
Cross your heart and hope to die?
All right. Get out.Get out!
Go on. What are you waiting for?
You know what I think? No.
What do you think?
I don't think there's anykids in your old basement.
I think you're just a big bluff! Oh, you do, do you?
Well, put that down!What are you doing touching things?
Don't touch anything. These aremy things and I don't want them touched.
It just looks like a lottaold dusty junk to me.
Well, you wouldn't know anythingabout that anyway.
You're nothing but a child.
Imagine criticizinga beautiful antique of this kind.
Never heard of such a thing. How'd you do that? What? What?What are you talking about?
That.How do you make it?
Don't you know anything?I didn't make it. The sun made it.
That's prismatic reflected light. Where from?
Where from? Well, uh__
Oh, from here.
You see these hanging crystals? Mmhmm.
The sun's rays hit it, and it actslike a prism. You understand?
Sure I understand. You do not.
You don't know whata prism is. Now, admit it.
It makes a rainbow right on your wall.Isn't it beautiful?
Yes, but when the sun sets,it'll be gone. So stop carrying on so.
Sure, but it'll be back againtomorrow when the sun comes again.
You have to admit that. I don't have to admit anything!
Well, I better begoing back home now.
Well, goodbye, Mr Pendergast.It was very nice meeting you.
And thank youfor showing me your house.
But I didn't show you my house.You came barging in here!
Goodbye.
Kids. Kids today.
Well, you always wereunpredictable, Edmond.
Hello, Polly. Coming here like thiswithout even calling.
Uh, won't you sit down?
Could I get you some sherry? Uh, no, thank you.
I ran into your niecedown at Wompus Creek.
We were talking about you and I thought,why not stop by and say hello.
Why, that's very nice. I don't know whyPollyanna would be at Wompus Creek.
Oh, she was playing.
She told meyou'd be alone today.
There were so many peoplearound the other day,we hardly had a chance to talk.
Yes, well, I'm sorry that meetinggot out of hand like that.
Well, tell me, who have you seensince you've been back? No one.
You knew that Carleen Donnellygot married, didn't you? No.
You remember her brother,Beckett Donnelly? No.
Of course you do.You two used to argue all the time.
Well, I'm sorry, I don't.
Well, it reallywasn't that important.
I know what I'll do.I'll give you a welcoming home party.
It might be nice to seesome of the old faces again.
I know that Gary and Nellwould love to see you.
Do you know that Nellhas eight children?And I think it's the fifth one__
Polly? What?
I'm not very good at parties.Please don't.
Well, I just thought you might liketo see some of your friends.
I came back to see you.
Well, that's very flattering.
A busy person like youremembering me.
I came back to see if you were marriedand what had happened to you.
Oh, I'm just the same.
Nothing has changed. Everything is__ We made a mistake.
I came back to seeif you felt the same as I do.
Oh, but it's been five years.
You can't just pop out__ They were wasted years.
Tell me about your work, Edmond.
We've heard that you've openeda clinic in Baltimore...
and we're very proud of you.
What was it you mentionedyesterday about the orphanage? I don't remember.
Oh, yes, you do.It was something about the dispensary.
It's inadequate for that numberof children. That's all.
Well, I want to modernize it.Will you help us?
Just tell us what we needand I'll buy it.
It's a civic responsibility.Why should you buy it?
Well, it isn't as ifI couldn't afford it. What does that have to do with it?
Well, it's because I want to.I feel I should.
After all, there is an obligationto having wealth.
Haven't you learned yetthat people don't like false charity?
Well, I don't want to talkabout it any more. I don't know howwe got off on this subject.
Well, it isn't the way I wanted it.
Perhaps I should come againanother time. Yes, perhaps you should.
And maybe you should call first?
Yes, I'll do that.
Pollyanna, look at your new dress.
It's filthy! And your shoes!
Oh, I'm sorry, Aunt Polly.
I was playing, and I didn't realise.
What were youand Dr Chilton talking about?
Oh! Nothing.
We were talking about your hair.
My hair? Yes.
He said you used to wear it verylong and soft, down to your shoulders.
He said it was beautiful!
Yes, well, uh__Clean yourself up for supper, dear.
Yes, Aunt Polly.
Here is the lastof the calf'sfoot jelly.
Oh, but Aunt Polly, please__ There'll be no nonsenseabout it, Pollyanna.
This is a duty and a jobthat must be done.
Nancy will show you wherethe deliveries are supposed to be made.
What kind of deliveries? Charity baskets, child.
Oh, the suffering in this world! Dwell on it.
Appreciate how lucky you are.
Now, these two go first, Nancy,and handle them with care.
Where's the one for Mrs Snow? Oh.
We took great pains to wrap thatattractively, knowing how she is. Yes, ma'am.
And there'll be no dawdling. And keepyour clothes clean for a change.
Come on. Off with you.
Come on, honey.We've got three more to go! Oh, just a minute, Nancy.
What's in the durn thing?
Um, I think that one'scalfs'foot jelly.
Oh, you don't have to look at itas though it was charity...
just a gift fromone friend to another.
Friend? Yes. I'm your friend.
Well, uh, I better be going now.Goodbye.
People sure hate to get charity. Isn't it the truth?
And I don't blame them. Dogooders! Ha!
Goodbye, Miss Ferd. Goodbye.
Now, how does that go again? Uh__
Early one morningjust as the sun was rising
Early one morningjust as the sun was rising
I heard a maiden singingin the valley below
One up.
Early one morningJust as the sun was rising
I heard a maiden singing
That takes care ofMrs Gaupherson, Miss Neely...
Doppsils and the Ferds.
Who's left?Just this one, Mrs Snow.
And I wish this one were over with. What's wrong with her?
She's just plain crabby,that's what's wrong with her.
You never met anyoneso cantankerous.
If it was Friday,she'd wish it was Tuesday.
What'd we bring her today? Uh, calfs'foot jelly.
You wait and see.She's bound to wish she had chicken.
And if we brought her chicken,she'd want lamb broth.
She's just cantankerous!
Millie?
Nancy, come on in.
How are you? Hello, there.
Hello. Uh, this is Pollyanna Whittier.
Oh, sure. I heard you were comingto stay with your aunt.
And this is Mrs Snow'sdaughter, Mildred. How do you do?
How do you do? Where were you last night?We waited and waited.
At the hayride. I know. My mother saidI could go and at the last minutechanged her mind.
She had some kind of,I don't know, an upset stomach. Oh, what a shame.
Stop that noise in there! Haven't youany respect for a dying woman?
Honestly! She was so crotchetytoday. I'm just worn to a frazzle!
This morning II fixed hera cup of coffee, as usual.
You know, I brought it in.She didn't want coffee this morning.
This morning she wanted tea. I don't know how you stand it.I swear!
I don't know either.I poured it down the sink.I had to make her a new cup of tea.
Do you remember the day thatthatthatI brought the currant jelly?
Yes!I had currant jelly from here to there.
She threw it at you!
Hello.
Who are you?
And what are you doingin my bedroom?
Uh, I am Pollyanna Whittier. Who?
Miss Harrington's niece. Oh!
The ladies' aid has sent me with this. Hmm? What is it?
Calfs'foot jelly. Calfs'foot jelly! Oh!
And I had my heart seton lamb's broth today.
You mean chicken, don't you? What's that?
Well, they tell me you always wantedchicken when you were brought jelly.
You're a Miss Impertinence,aren't ya?
Come here.Come right over here.
You have a stubby little nose.
What do you think about that?
I know it.I wish I were pretty like you.
Oh, don't you try to butter me up.
I'm not at all pretty. Oh, but you are!
And you don't look sick at all.
Well, that shows youwhat a stupid little girl you are.
Well, get outta my way.
Why, I'm right on death's doorstep...
just hanging on by sheer will power.
If you had to lay here day after dayand day after day, and you callanybody, and your daughter__
Put that down, stop it.And she wouldn't come.
She's gallivantin' somewhere. And thedoctor, all he gives you is pills.
Pills and bills.Just pills and bills. That's all.
What are you staring at? Your prisms.
My what? Your prisms.
Did you know they paintrainbows on your wall? Oh.
See? On that wall over there.
How'd you do that?
Well,I said that I'm too old and toosmart for that old saw, Fred Pallegrew. Well, I should say so!
You just turn that horse aroundand head out from underneaththis covered bridge right now.
I'll bet that cooled his heels. You should've seen his face.
More coffee? Oh, please.
It's awful quiet in there. I wonder what's going on.
Uh, more to your left.To your left, you silly girl.
What's the matter with you? Now, there.There. That's not bad at all.
Not bad?It's gorgeous!
I think it was a fine idea. Now, don't be taking credit.
I suggested stringing them up there.
Why, Mrs Snow, that's a fib.It was my idea.
It was my idea to use the string!
You didn't know how to do ittill I suggested the string.
You're impertinent.I don't like you at all.
I'm sorry.
When are you coming back again?
Tomorrow, I guess. I'll see you then.
Well, if I'm not in my grave.
Bye. Bye.
All right, Nancy?
Goodbye, Millie. Goodbye, Nancy.
Goodbye, Pollyanna! Bye.
Don't stand there! Go on and fixa cold pack for my headache!
Go on! Go on!
Yes, Mother.
Let's get some gumption around here.
Let's start actinglike a community.
Hey, Doc, you just sit therechewing on that straw.
Put in your two bits' worth.What do you think?
I came here to fish, Charlie. I don'twant to butt into your affairs here.
Ben Tarbell?Where are you sneaking off to?
You folks are biting offa pretty big chew with all this talk.
Come on, Ben. Get it said.
A lot of us have got vested interestsin the Harrington companies.
Our wives belong toher ladies' aid group.
My woman would skin me alive if I wasto go opposite to Polly Harrington.
And that's the truth!I'm sorry.
Anybody else want to quit,do it now.
All right, then. Let's get our handsout of our hip pockets...
and find a way to raise some money.
Are you with me? Yeah.
Early one morningjust as the sun was rising
I heard a maiden singingin the valley below
What's happening?
Now, that's the very first thingin the morning. Charlie Gorman...
that means eight menassigned to you for carpentry.
Dan Seymour'll supplythe onebytwelves. Right, Dan? Right.
All right. Now, look, Mary,you gotta get that cooking done.
Of course, you gotthat other thing to run. Yes, Karl,I'll take care of the chicken.
Hi, Pollyanna! Hi. I'll be back in a minute.
Hi, honey. Hi. What's going on?
Lady, you are looking at the electedhead of the entertainment committee.
Old Uncle George!
Entertainment committee for what? Well__
If we get the corn, you can takethat whole thing out of there.
Charlie, you can count on meto haul in that lumber.
Don't have to use the big truck__ We're gonna have the best bazaaryou've ever seen.
We sure are!
A bazaar? To raise money for a new orphanage.
It's the first time folks havestood together against Polly Harrington.
Nancy, did you knowthere's going to be a bazaar? Yes!
With corn on the coband ice cream and everything!
Can kids come, George? Can they come? Well, of course they__
George?Now, where'd you get that name?Oh, stop. She's known it all along.
And you meanyou didn't tell your aunt?
Well, what did you thinkI was, a snitchbaby? You're a good girl.
When's it gonna be? Sunday night, a week.
Let me tell you about it.What a night. An extravaganza.
And I'm in charge of all the acts,all the entertainment.
Picture it, ladies.Darkness, and out of the night...
50 bicycles appear,moving down the square.
And hanging from their handlebars...
200__ 200 gorgeous Japanese lanterns.
Hey, Pollyanna, wait for me.
Where are you goin'? There's a big bazaar and I'm helping.
Hey, wait a minute.
What's it for? It's an extravaganza.
Picture it.
Darkness...
fifty bicycles...
200 gorgeousJapanese lanterns swinging.
And I'll be on the lead bicycle,just riding along, right out in front.
Oh, boy. Can I help? All right. Come on.
Where you goin' now? Mr Pendergast's.
You're going back?You're nutty!
What are you doing back here? Oh, just came to say hello.
Tell you something about your prisms. Well, what about them?
Well, aren't you going to invite me in?Invite you in?
No more privacy than a goldfish.
All right. Come in, come in.But you can't stay long.
Can he come in too?
Can who come in?Jimmy Bean!
Come on.Don't be a scarebaby!
Oh, come on!
Don't touch anything.
Well, why didn't you just invitethe whole town while you were at it?
Oh, I just wanted to show Jimmythe rainbow on your wall.
Do you mind?
All right.Go ahead, go ahead.
Kids__They'll drive you crazy.
One thing or another.It's getting so a man...
can't call his home his own any more.
And where do you think it comes from?Through this piece of glass.
Explain it to him, Mr Pendergast. I've got work to do.
Don't you know anything aboutrefracted light, there, boy? It's the sunlight coming through__
I'll do the explaining if you don'tmind, little Miss Knowitall.
Now, boy, you see here, the__
Don't they ever cut your hairin that darn orphanage? I like it the way it is.
Look at you. So much hair, you looklike you're wearing a coonskin cap.
Lemme go, will ya? Anyway...
about the refracted light.
Oh yes.
Now pay attention, boy.
You see the shape of this crystal?That is a prism.
The light is stripped by that angle.That refracts the ray...
splits the colours,diffuses them in an oblique angle...
and bends it outinto a dispersed colour band.
You understand?
What he means is...
the sun comes through hereand paints a rainbow.
You see? Oh, I understand!
Can I try it once, please?
Go ahead, but don't break anything.
Do you know Mrs Snow?Well, I've just come from her place.
And we strung a whole bunch of themup across her window.
You should see what that does!
Let's try it. All right.
Oh no, I've got work to do.
If we had some wireor a piece of thread...
we could string 'em upacross the whole window.
Oh, we could, could we?Do you kids think...
I've got nothing better to dothan to play silly games?
Well, don't stand therelooking at me like that.
There's string in that box over there.Go and get it, go and get it.
Oh, dear, dear, dear.
Oh, my goodness! Look!
Look. See over here? Look on the door!
It's on the door. Can't you see? Look!
Oh, it's gorgeous!
It's the most beautifulroom in the entire world.
Not bad, is it?
It's not bad at all.
That dining room looks awfully gloomy.Why don't we do the same thing in there?
Oh, boy! Let's go! No.
What do you mean, "no"?I thought you enjoyed it.
Well, it's what I came to see youabout, Mr Pendergast.
You see, they're havinga big bazaar in town...
and they're trying to raise enough moneyto build a new orphanage.
I like the old one. Be still.
Anyway, they need help.
And everyone's supposed to bringsomebody else. And I want to bring you.
What for? They're having all kinds of standsto sell things__
hooked rugs, quiltsand crocheted tablecloths.
And we can have a stand and sell these!
Rainbow makers!
I'll bet everyone would buy one.
I never go into town, and I don'tbelieve in community projects.
But they need you! They need me?
Of course, they are sort ofattractive little things, aren't they?
I just wonder if folkswould buy a thing like this.
I wonder.
Now, I'm not trying to sell youthe brass, but it is durable.
Well, the silver's pretty, and I thinkyou're right about the brass.
Oh, I don't know.I just can't make up my mind.
Of course, the effect of silveris always in good taste.
Hi, Mrs Snow. Well, where have you been,you naughty girl?
Oh, I'm sorry. I've been helpingfor the bazaar. Hello, Mr Murg. How do you do?
What've you got there? Don't bring thosedirty rags in here! Get them off my bed!
Oh, they aren't dirty rags.They're patchwork squares.Mrs Gaupherson made them.
I thought perhaps you'd like tostitch them together...
to make a patchwork quiltfor the bazaar.
What an impertinent child! Listen. You just take themright out of here!
I'm not gonna do anything of the sort! But everyone's helping__
Mr Neely, the Julians,and even old Mrs Thurm.
Oh. She wants me to workin my condition.
Don't bother Mrs Snow, girl.
She's a very sick woman!
Well, I thought it might give yousomething to do instead ofjust lying around.
I mean, the bazaar'sfor an awfully good cause.
Well, it's a waste of time.Nobody'll come to it. You wait and see.
That's right. Why not?
Because__ Because of your aunt,that's why not.
Well, I don't understand.
Well, we do, don't we, Mr Murg?
Indeed we do. Good. Well.
Now, about this white satin.I think it's lovely.
ThisThis is my first choice. And I think the best one.
Yeah. It'll look lovelyagainst the brass handles.
Are you having a dress made?
Don't be impertinent!
I'm pickin' the lining for my coffin.
That's right.
But you're not gonna die!
Does she have to be here?
Go on into the kitchenand talk to Mildred.
Now__
Now, this satin is lovely.
Well, it's all settled then.
Thirteen yards of the white satin...
at $ 1 .20 the yard.
And the brass coffin handles.
Well, all right, all right.Write it up.
Stop frowning at me like that!
What's the matter with you?
Well, it's just that...
well, a person shouldn't thinkabout dying so much!
I don't want you to die. Oh, bless you for that.
It seems everyone else can't wait.
I'm not supposed to talkabout my father at home...
but I guess it's all right here.
My father used to say,a person should think about living.
Why don't you go outside and play?
Hush up.I want to hear what she has to say. Yes. Mrs Snow. Yes.
It just reminded meabout my father and the doll.
You see,I always wanted a doll...
but we never had enough moneyfor things like that.My father was a minister.
But surely he could afforda little thing like a doll.
Well, he couldn't.We had to have the money for food.
Oh, for heaven's sake! Shh!
So anyway, my father wroteto the missionary people...
and asked them to please senda little secondhand doll.
Well, there was a funny mistake.When the missionary barrels came...
instead of a doll,they sent a pair of crutches.
Well, of course,I was rather disappointed.
So my father made up the glad game. The what game?
She's been pestering folks all over townwith this sunshine and happiness thing.
Hearts and flowers.Enough to make you sick.
Hush up! I want to hear it. Certainly.
Anyway, about the crutches...
my father said,"Don't let's be gloomy.
Let's try to find somethingto be glad about."
So we made a game of it__the glad game!
"The glad game"! Shh!
So anyway, we played the game...
and after a while I forgotabout the doll and being gloomy.
And you know what?I found a reason for being glad.
Well, there's nothing happyabout a pair of crutches.
Well, we were gladthat we didn't have to use them!
Why must you bedevilthis poor dying woman...
with your childish,silly little stories?
I just thought she could play the game!You could be glad you don't needthis horrid old coffin!
You could help othersby making the patchwork quiltfor the orphans if you wanted.
You ought to forget about dyingand be glad you're living!
Oh, I don't care what you do.
I'm not gonna comeand see you any more.
I__ I didn't meanto hurt her feelings.
She's serious about it, isn't she? Oh, please, please, Mr Murg.
Leave me alone.
I'm sorry if I've__ Please.
Please leave me alone.
Ben told me yesterday they've beenorganizing, about 50 of them.
And Ed Chilton's got a fingerin the pie too! Edmond?
Gave them the idea is what he did.And that's not all.
It couldn't have been Nancy. I tell you, she was there.Jesse told me.
I'd fire that girl so fast,it would make her head swim.
And that child, your own niece,helping them!
Pollyanna?
Just a moment.
Mrs Tarbell tells me you're involvedwith that bazaar. Well, I won't have it.
But, Aunt Polly,I'm part of the flag.
We won't discuss it. I don't want youto see those people any more...
and that's an order!
Yes, ma'am.
The blessings you've heapedon that child, and her workingwith those people against you.
Get down my cake tins, Angie.We're going to work.
Doin' what? Thinks she's the queen of Sheba,does she?
Well, she can't stop usfrom helping with that bazaar!
We're gonna bake cakes,dozens and dozens of'em!
Where are you gonna getthe ingredients? Where do you think?
You're getting paid, aren't you? Not to be kicked.He kicked me in the stomach.
Now,Jimmy, you've got to stopkicking Mr Hooper and sit still.
I don't want to get my hair cut! Hey,Jed.
Get that hammer out back,and we'll nail his shoes to the chair!
Hey. Mr Pendergast.
You should be ashamed of yourself,Ben Tarbell!
I paid for the tickets.Will you let it go at that, Karl?I just can't show up at your affair.
You ain't the only one, Ben. What do you mean by that?
Well, I just camefrom your newspaper office.What's the matter with those fellows?
They said they couldn't handlethis ad for our bazaar. Will yougo over and straighten them out?
Ah, take it easy, Doc. Our spaceis all sold, and I can't go around__
Tell him the truth.Why lie to the man? You're a coward!
It isn't Baltimore up here, Doc.This is a small town.
And you know as well as everybody elseour newspaper's ownedby the Harrington family.
Liverbellied bunch of miserable sheep!That's what you all are.
Well, take it easy, Pendergast.It's the way things are.
I say that you're all chickenlivered!And I'm sick and tired of__
Just a minute!Just a minute!The thing is this.
Most folks around here make a livingoutta Polly Harrington,some way or another.
We can't afford to antagonize her. Can't afford to antagonize her?
Just don't be surprised if come Sundaynight nobody shows up at your bazaar.
I don't believe that.
Well, you're comin', aren't ya?Claire? Charlie?
People are just plain scared to, Karl.
They're afraid of Polly Harringtonpaying 'em back later.
She'll do it too. You know her. Now, look.
We've all taken a cut or twoat the Harringtons...
but she wouldn't do a thing like that.
If you think I'mintimidating a whole town__ Oh, Polly, you know what I mean.
No one will make a movein this town without the Harringtonstamp of approval on it.
Oh!
Karl Warren sent you, didn't he? He knewno one would cooperate without me.
Nobody sent me.I just wanted it made clearyou don't mind if the others cooperate.
You needed my help.Why don't you admit it?
Won't let your guard downfor a minute, will you?
Still suspicious.Still don't trust anyone.
Nothing's changed, has it, Polly?
You're still as opinionated as ever,if that's what you mean.
Oh, Angelica...
Dr Chilton is leaving.
Keep busy, Polly. Lots of meetingsand civic duties and obligations.
It's a poor substitutefor what's really wrong with you.
I knew I could count on youfor some lofty clinical observations.
Would you like to be paidfor your diagnosis?
This one's on the house.There's no medical term for it.
You can give everything but love.It's as simple as that.
Angelica? Ma'am?
See that the flowersin the conservatory get fresh water.
I found them dry again today. Yes, ma'am.
Did ya hear how he told her off?
Like water off a duck's back to her.
That woman's got no feelings at all!
How'd it go, Ed? Stubborn, muleheaded woman.Just likeher father. I should have known better.
What did she say? A lot of foolish nonsense.
What she really wantsis for us to go begging to her...
get her sanction, permissionfrom the queen to gather in the streets.
Hi, Nancy. Hi, dear. What's the matter?
Oh, nothing. It's a doggone shame,after all the work folks put into it.
Is the bazaar off? It looks that way.
Why? You wouldn't understand.
Is it because of Aunt Polly? Yes.
It takes a word from someone,someone who isn't under her thumb.
Fat change you got, Ed. She's gother finger in nearly everything__
the bank, the mills,the paper, real estate.
Harrington Town. A fine thing,one woman owning a town.
Well, like it or not,that's what she does.
Nancy. Yes? She doesn't own the church.
That's right.
What did you say?
Um, I just said thatnobody could own a church.
Our social structure in this small townseems to teeter on a delicate balance...
one which__ which I certainly cannotin any way attempt to influence.
AA man of God cannot betaking sides in these feuds.
But all we wantis a word from you, Reverend. No.
If you'd just let the people knowtomorrow you're in favour of us. No, no, no.
I won't use that pulpitfor public announcements.
Then you're siding with herby not mentioning it. I am not!
I'm staying completely out of it,and that's all there is to it.
Reverend Ford, if you'd justlet us say that you're in favour.
There's nothing more to discuss.
This is all just impossible. I'm afraid you're right.
Thank you, Reverend Ford.
You see, I__Of course, you understand that__
Personally I think it's a good cause andall that, andand I wish you luck with it.
Thanks a lot.I guess Pollyanna was wrong.
Now, what has she got to do with this?
She said nobodycould own a church.
Hello, Mrs Ford. Hello, dear. What are you doing here?
Aunt Polly sent me.Uh, something for Reverend Ford.
Oh, he's just back up there. Oh, yes, I saw him. Thank you.
It's a lovely day, isn't it? Yes, it is.
And he sayeth unto them...
the wicked shall be punished.
The wicked shall be punished.
Their poison is likethe poison of serpents.
But they shall feelthe gall of asps within them.
How many timeshave I stood on this pulpit...
and warned you,cautioned you again and again__
A house divided against itselfcannot stand.
A kingdom divided against itselfcan be brought to desolation.
If you are an enemy to one another...
then you are an enemy to God!
Am I reaching out to you?Do you understand my words?
Well__
Week after week, I stand herereaching out to you...
begging you to understand.
Yet, week after week...
the same wickedness persists...
the same dissension...
the same belligerence,the same feuding...
until you areten thousand times...
more abominable inthe eyes of God...
than the most hateful,venomous, violent, vicious__
You!
What are you doing here? Oh, nothing.
Um, I mean, I was looking for you.
Uh, Aunt Polly sent you this.
Now, what is it? Uh, I don't know.
I'm sorry I disturbedyour practise.
Would you like someoneto practise your sermon on? No. No, thank you, child.
Uh, Mother and I used to bean audience to my father...
when he was practisinghis sermons.
HeHe was a minister too, you know. Oh, yes, yes. So he was.
Uh, do you like being a minister?
Do I like being a m__
Now, why would you aska thing like that?
Oh, the way you looked just thenreminded me of my father.
Once I saw him sorta sad like that,and I asked him.
And what did he say?
Oh. Oh, said he was glad he was.
But it made him sad sometimes.
Just couldn't seem to get throughto his congregation.
Sounds familiar.
I suppose every minister ofGod faces the same problem.
Mm, I suppose.
Tell me, did your fatherever solve the problem?
Well, he read something one daythat he said helped him.
In the Bible?
No, just somethinghe read someplace.
He had it put on this chain.
He wore it always.It's all I have of his.
"When you look for the bad__"
Ooh! It always makes me crosseyed.
May I?
"When you look for the bad in mankindexpecting to find it...
you surely will.
Abraham Lincoln." He was the president.
Yes. Yes, I know.
But I never heard that before.
Neither had my father.
Anyway, he saidit started him thinking.
And from then on, he was gonnalook for the good in people.
That's when we both startedsearching the Bible for the texts.
The texts?
Yes. You know. My fathercalled them "the glad passages."
You know, the happy ones like...
um, uh, "Shout for joy"...
or "Be glad in the Lord."
You know, like that. There are800 happy texts. Did you know that?
No, I didn't know that. Yes, well, there are.
And you know, my father said...
"If God took the trouble to tell us800 times to be glad and rejoice...
he must've wanted us to do it."
Oh, I'd better be going now.I'm sorry I disturbed your practising.
I'll see you later. Uh, goodbye.
Goodbye, Reverend Ford.
"Dear Reverend...
I've taken the liberty ofjotting down a few thoughts...
and some text from Matthew...
which I thought you might wantto use in your sermon tom__"
Oh, my God. What have I done?
What have I done?
Dear, are you all right?
Nobody owns a church.
No one.
Apocrypha. Ecclesiasticus 30...
paragraph 22.
"Gladness of the heartis the life of man."
This is one of the rejoicing...
or happy texts.
Ayoung member of our parishpointed out to me...
that there are 800 suchhappy texts in our Bible.
Well, she was wrong.
There are, to be exact...
I know, because I stayed up mostof last night counting them.
I intend to read oneof them every week.
And that should take us, according tomy calculations, through 1 6 years...
if I'm around here that long.
But I can promise you this.If I am here...
our visits with God on Sundayare going to be happier...
and more rejoicing too.
Eh.
Now, what I have to say now...
is very difficult for me.
But it must be said.
I look out to you now...
and realize...
after four yearsin this congregation...
I don't even know you. I look outto you now not as my congregation...
but as people.
And I say to myself, how sad it isto have missed those four years...
four years whenwe could've been friends.
I should have been lookingfor the good in you.
And I__ I failed you. I__
And I apologize for this.
God is forgiving, but it's notGod's forgiveness I beg, it is yours.
I'mI'm not gonna speak about thisany more now. It's a lovely day outside.
So let's go outside and enjoythis Sunday for a change.
And while you're outappreciating the sunlight, just...
give a little thoughtto who's sending it down to you.
Eh.
Oh, stop, please.One more thing, please! Please sit down.
Please.Just one more thing.I'm sorry.
There's to be a charity bazaarin the band park tonight.
It's for a good cause.
And, um, I want to go on record...
as being 1 00 percent for it.
So let's all go out thereand have ourselves some fun...
because, um...
well, if you're not there__
Let me put it this way.
If you're not there...
I'll lam into you something fiercewhen I get you in here next week!
And you know I can do it too!
Where's Pollyanna? I don't know. I haven't seen her.
Be careful when you put those in thecar. Don't you smudge that frosting.
Keep your fingers outta there.
Nancy? Angelica?
Where's Pollyanna, please?She's gotta be there.
It's a big bazaar tonight. Pollyanna'sgotta be there, or she'll ruin the flag.
Well, Pollyanna is too youngto be out alone at night.
Couldn't you bring her? No, I could not. Goodnight.
Gemmenie! Oh!
Pollyanna!
What are you doing up here?You'll fall.
You'll fall and kill yourself,you big silly.
You gotta come. You'll spoilthe flag if you don't show up.
I can't. Aunt Polly won't let me.
Come on. She'll never know.
Don't look down.
I don't think I want to try it. Come on. Gimme your hand.
I'll help you across.
Come on. Easy. Easy. Real slow.
Grab that one. All right.Don't look down.
Are you sure it's safe? I'm sure it's safe.
It's ripe. It's lovely.There you are, folks.
The finest watermelon at a pennya slice. You cannot have finer.
There's your best one.I say, isn't that good? Yes, it is.
Here you are, lad. Thank you very much.
There you are. Isn't that fine? It looks wonderful!
Hurry, hurry! Hurry, hurry!
Hello, Mr Howard. Reverend Ford, Mrs Ford.Nice to see ya.
We have a booth over here. There you are, sir.
This beautiful,soontobe patented rainbow maker.
You're going to be very happywith it, sir. Hurry, hurry.
Right this way,ladies and gentlemen.
Well, where in the heck have you been? Well, we made__
Well, they're lookingfor you everywhere.Go and get into your costume now.
Hurry, hurry! Go on! And,Jimmy,go have some fun for yourself.
This way, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, that looks delicious, Mrs Litner.
Thank you, Mrs Cleaver.Just pay on the other side.
There you go, my dear. Thank you, Mrs Lagerlof.
You're very welcome.
Pollyanna! Will you go and get intoyour costume? They're waiting for you.
Now, who do you suppose this is?
Mrs Snow! Here.
Here. Now, you can take thisand raffle it off.
You finished it. Oh, it's gorgeous.
Mrs Snow, it's beautiful.
Hi, Millie. Good evening, Mrs Snow.
Darling! Listen, honey, you'vegotta hurry. They're waiting for you.
Uhh, quilt? Well, I'll take it to the quilt stand.
Now you skedaddle as fast as you canand put on your costume. Here. Hold my cake.
Run!
A nice, homemade patchwork quilt.No home is complete without one.
On the cob.There's some salt over there.
Can I have more? You finish those first, then youcan come back and have some more.
Delicious corn on the cob.
One. Right here.
Pollyanna, will you hurry up? Everyoneelse is dressed and waiting for you.
But I never get a chanceto have anything. Oh, come on.
Yes, you'll win yourselfa beautiful doll.
A beautiful doll if ya fishin the fishing pond.
All right, step right up here, folks.This is the place.
I am not going to budge. I've had just enough of your nonsense.
You're going to join in with the othersand make this a town, not a dynasty.
Get down out of that car, Amelia.I'm warning you. Move!
Good evening, folks. Come on.
Fish and wish fora surprise here, folks. Here, honey. Oh, thank you.
Yes, sir, folks. Now, you have to think aboutwhat you want and wish very hard.
I understand.
I'm wishing. Do you know what you want?
All right.
Hey, there she goes.The young lady's going down after it.
What we gonna get there? Come on.Step right in there, folks.
Fish in the magic fishing pond.Everybody step right up here.
It's only two cents.Drop a line and fish for your surprise.
It's the most exciting gameat the bazaar.
Come on, folks. Fish and wish.Get your bamboo pole here.
Two cents! Hey! Looky there!
The little lady just pulleda beautiful doll for herself. Oh, my gosh! Look!
Yes, sir, folks. She's mine. Oh, how did they know?
Right here__ Step right up__ Well, Reverend.
Step right upand show 'em how to do it. No, no. No, no.
I haven't pitchedsince my college days. Hey, Reverend!
Bet you couldn't hitthe broad side of a barn.
Who is that?Charley MacAndrews up there?
What about it? Here. Hold this.
Leave your coat on.You're not gonna hit anything anyhow.
Buy some corn with the money. You know...
I've been trying to get youbaptised for the past three years.
And he throws!
Look out! Look out! Look out!
O beautiful for spacious skies
For amber waves of grain
For purple mountain majesties
Above the fruited plain
America, America
God shed his grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining
Sea
O beautiful for spacious skies
For amber waves of grain
For purple mountain majesties
Above the fruited plain
America, America
God shed his grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining
Sea
Take you home again, Kathleen
Across the ocean
Wild and wide
Oh! Thank you. Goodnight. Goodnight.
Goodnight. Thanks for the ride.
Where your heart has ever been
Since first you were my bonny bride
The roses all have left your cheeks
My heart just fades away
And dies
I'll take you home again
Kathleen
I'd never thought.The way they bought up those cakes!
It's a lot of money for that.
What is it, ma'am? I thought I heard something.
Oh, Lord of mercy.
Oh!
Oh, Angelica,call the doctor quickly.
Oh, my God.
If you don't mind, I'd like to speakto all of you in the salon for a moment.
Nancy, when Miss Pollyannafeels better...
I want you to move all of my clothesand my personal belongingsinto the next room.
Yes, ma'am. I want her to stay where she is.
It's a larger room,and it has a much nicer view.
And it looks as though she'sgoing to have to remain therefor quite some time.
You might as well know thatPollyanna's legs are paralyzed.
She doesn't know it yet, and I don'tknow exactly how I'm going to tell her.
I just don't know howI'm going to tell her.
I came as soon as I heard.Eh, how is the child?
Pollyanna!
Come on down and play! Pollyanna!
We'll go swimmin'. Want to?
Pollyanna! Boy! Boy! Boy, boy.
Stop that, stop that.Now, you go away from here.
But I wanna play with Pollyanna. Pollyanna can't play,because she's had an accident.
Now, you go on home like a good boy.Go on. Hurry up. Go on.
Hurry up. Go on.
God works in ways mysterious to man. Don't speak to me about God!
Say what you think.I can see it in your eyes.
They blame me, don't they? No. No, nobody's blaming you.
It's true, isn't it? I could havebeen the least bit understanding.
That child lies up therebecause of me.
Polly, the mercy of God is forgiving__ Oh, what kind of a merciful God...
could allow a thing like thisto happen to a child?
And if he were merciful,why did he let her come to our town?
Let me tell you something,Polly Harrington.
Sunday a miracle happened in this town.Oh, this town!
Yes, this town.Right out there in that streetthe people are smiling at one another.
Go on. Take a look for yourself.It's very contagious.
Just think, Polly.If she had never come to this town__
We ought to get down on our kneesand thank God for sending her to us.
Excuse me, ma'am.Dr Chilton wants to see you.
Now, you understand everythingI told you, don't you, dear?
And there's nothing to be afraid of. What is it, Edmond?
I told Pollyanna about her injury.She understands. Don't you, dear?
We're going to take you to Baltimorefor an operation so you can walk again.
You hear that, honey?
I know. Why don't we all cheer up?
Let's see if we can't find somethingto be glad about your staying in bed.
Um, oh, I know.
This way we can allhave steak and ice cream.
Did you know that your auntordered it for you?
Now you find something to beglad about. We'll play the game.
Well__
I suppose I could be glad because__
Yes? Go ahead, darling.
No. It was a silly game.
I hate it.
I never want to play it again.
Leave me alone.
Please try to understand,Pollyanna.
You're such a partof our lives now.
Nancy and Angelica, Mrs Lagerlof.
And I love you as ifyou were my own little girl.
Won't you give me that chance?Please?
Put these in too, Mr Thomas. All right.
And tell Dr Chiltonthat the car's all ready. Yes.
Yes, we're leaving immediatelyon the 1 1 :30 train.
Well, check the arrival schedule.
Make sure we're met with an ambulance.I want complete X raysthe minute we arrive.
Yes. Thank you.
Is the operation dangerous? Yes, it's very delicate.
You're coming, aren't you?I need your permission to operate.
Edmond.
There's something worrying you,and I want to know what it is.
We can only do so much with surgery.A great deal depends on her.
This depression she's got herself into.That's what's worrying me.
Edmond. She's had a shock.She's just learned about her legs.
I can't have her despondentlike this for the operation.
Well, you have to give her time. Time? There is no time.
I have to move her, get her intothe hospital, and I don't like it.
What that child needs isa good shot in the arm of hope.
Hope?What she really needed was love.
And that's somethingI never gave her.
We can still give her that love.
You and I together.
Ma'am! Ma'am! There's somethingvery peculiar happening outside.
Miss Harrington!TheyTheyThey'll ruin our flower beds.
What are you talking about? AAAcross the lawns and the flowers.
WWe gotta do something. I gottastop 'em. Gotta get 'em outta there.
Now, let me out. That's what I've beentrying to tell you.
Been trying to tell me what?
Oh, not the begonias!
Them's Miss Harrington'sfavourite flowers.
Now, please, folks.Go around the other way.
Don't come through there.You can go around that tree.
Now look!Go around over by the driveway. I__
Oh, the heck with it.
What is it you want? We don't want anything.
We just come to say"How'd ya do" to the child...
and bring a bit of gladnessinto her life.
Like she brought into ours,God love her.
We just want her to knowshe's got friends, lots of them.
Give her our love and we'll get offyour private property, Miss Harrington.
Well, no. Uh, wait.
Why don't you tell her yourself?Open the doors, Nancy.
Nancy, open the door.
Come in, won't you?Nice to see you.
Hello. How are you, Mr Neely?I'm just fine. How are you today?
Hello. Won't you come in?Oh, what beautiful flowers.
Hello. I'm so glad you came. Hello.
You have a few callers downstairs,young lady.
What? You gonna greet them withthat mopey old face of yours?
I don't wanna see anyone.
Well, Pollyanna, you're not gonna havemuch choice in the matter this time.
Oh, no, please.I don't wanna see anyone. Now, just easy.
You'll be all right, dear. I know. You get well now, you hear?
It's not charity.Just a gift,eh, from one friend to another.
Oh, thank you, Mr Neely. Hi, honey.
You're going to be fine.Don't you worry.
Goodbye, darling. We're goingto visit you in the hospital.
Hey, Snookie.Take a look at this, will ya?
Really? You mean, really?You did it!
Oh, Nancy. It's gorgeous. Isn't it?
And we're gonna wait for you.You're gonna be my flower girl.
I'm glad you'll be comin'back to us, darlin'.
And that's the truth of it.
The house will bemiserable without you.
Miserable. You hurry back to us.
Best wishes, Pollyanna.
Goodbye.
Goodbye, Angelica.
Hurry home to us.
What is everybody sniffin' about?My goodness.
A bunch of ninnies.Think a person couldn't get well.
Hi, Mrs Snow. Oh, bless you. Bless you, darling.
I'll see you soon. Thank you for coming.
Ah, it's all right. Bye. Goodbye.
Hello, Pollyanna. Hello, dear.We have a surprise for you.
Shall we tell her now,Jimmy? I've been adopted.
Adopted? Who? Who? Who do you think?
We're gonna spend the rest of our livesjust hangin' prisms.
You hurry home and help.
Hello, Mrs Ford.Hello, Reverend Ford.
We looked for the good in them,and we found it, didn't we?
Aunt Polly?
Byebye. Bye. Bye. Tata.
Byebye. Bye.
